this episode of politics on board is
brought to you by the great courses plus
have you ever watched Prime Minister's
Questions it's brilliant every Wednesday
at midday MP is it given 30 minutes to
ask the Prime Minister any question
about anything they like she doesn't
know what the questions are going to be
and she has to answer all of them on
live TV it gives the PM a chance to
prove how good she is under pressure and
the leader of the Opposition who gets to
us six questions gets a chance to prove
himself as well democracy at its best or
is it
[Music]
P and Q's is like any other House of
Commons debate and all the usual strict
rules apply these ancient and the
fuddling rules resemble a rowdy student
drinking game one you can only speak if
you're standing up to no second person
pronouns you have to say mr. speaker
does the Prime Minister agree you can't
say Prime Minister do you agree will the
Prime Minister can't the Prime Minister
just the Prime Minister point the Prime
Minister free no clapping clapping would
drown out the sound of sensible debate
which is why they make this noise
instead by the way that used to be the
words here hit but it slowly evolved
over time to sound more like ear and
then eventually for no names the members
refer to each other as the right
honourable gentleman my friend my
honourable friend my honourable friend
her friends a member of the northeast
Bedford shirk and so on and so on and so
on and so on and so on
all these rules have been put there with
the express purpose of making sure MPs
respect each other and debate like
mature adults ironically it's these very
rules that allow them to act like
nine-year-old children especially in PM
Q's most of the PM's answers are
surprisingly polished and well rehearsed
like a good stand-up comedian she's an
expert at dealing with hecklers and
segwaying into her own material I think
that word actually describes the right
honourable gentleman's leadership
incredible and the responses from the
leader of the Opposition aren't much
better in fact if you listen very
carefully you'll notice there's very
little interaction between the leaders
of tone since dinosaur times P and Q s
has been a theatrical display of
one-upmanship from all sides it's an
opportunity to show how United your
party is in decibels to get good sound
bites on the news and perhaps most
shamefully of all to ask questions
you've been told - to make your leader
look good can I ask the Prime Minister
given her unwavering commitment to
deliver economic stability
ensure that economic stability and
national security remain the guiding
principles of her Premiership Batman
sleeps at night PM cujo's politicians at
their very worst and can put people off
politics entirely so that's why some
people are now calling for the whole
thing to be scrapped but for now Prime
Minister's Questions is here to stay and
it looks like it will be with us for
many more Wednesday afternoons to come
and that noise they make will probably
evolve into a new hello what are you
doing I'm studying no you're not you're
watching a video but it's not just any
video it's a video from the great
courses plus great courses Plus that
sounds interesting what's it all about
tell me what it's all about basically
the great courses plus is a subscription
on-demand video learning service with
really good lectures and courses from
very very good professors from Ivy
League universities that sounds really
good it is really good and there's no
exams or homework that's good cuz I
don't like either of those things how
many different video lectures are there
there's like 7,000 of them oh my god
that's loads it is loads isn't it and
they had more lectures every month so
could I find video lectures about
something really specific if I wanted to
like what like about the history of
England in the 16th century including
information about how Parliament came
about yes they've got a really good
video lecture about that and could I
also find video lectures about stuff
that's not that specific in the grand
scheme of things what do you mean not
that specific like maths yes they've
also got massive oh that's really good I
like the great courses plus great
courses Plus is there a way I could try
it out for free for about 4 weeks as a
matter of fact there is if you go to
great courses plus comm /j Forman for a
free 30-day trial click on the link in
the description below to start your free
trial today
[Applause]